# 시맨틱 웹 요소

## main
The main element represents the **main content** of the body of a document or application. The main content area **consists of content that is directly related to or expands upon the central topic** of a document or central functionality of an application.

## article
The article element represents **a self-contained composition** in a document, page, application, or site, which is intended to be independently distributable or reusable (e.g., in syndication).

This could be a forum post, a magazine or newspaper article, a blog entry, a user-submitted comment, an interactive widget or gadget, or any other independent item of content.

Each article should be identified, typically by including a heading (h1~h6 element) as a child of the article element.

For example, on a blog that shows the text of each article one after another as the reader scrolls, each post would be contained in an `<article>` element, possibly with one or more `<section>`s within.

## section
The section element represents a generic section of a document or application. A section, in this context, is a **thematic grouping of content**. Each section should be identified, typically by including a heading (h1~h6 element) as a child of the section element.

If the contents of the element would make sense syndicated as a standalone piece, the `<article>` element may be a better choice.

## header
The header element represents **introductory content** for its nearest ancestor sectioning content or sectioning root element. A header typically contains **a group of introductory or navigational aids**. When the nearest ancestor sectioning content or sectioning root element is the body element, then it applies to the whole page.

## footer
The footer element represents a **footer for its nearest sectioning content or sectioning root element**. A footer typically contains **information about the author of the section, copyright data or links** to related documents.

Enclose information about the author in an `<address>` element that can be included into the `<footer>` element.

`<article>`, `<section>`, `<aside>`, and `<nav>` can have their own `<footer>`. Despite its name, it is **not necessarily positioned at the end of the page or section**.

## nav
The nav element represents a section of a page whose **purpose is to provide navigation links**, either within the current document or to other documents. Common examples of navigation sections are menus, tables of contents, and indexes.

It's not necessary for all links to be contained in a `<nav>` element. `<nav>` is intended only for major block of navigation links; typically the `<footer>` element often has a list of links that don't need to be in a `<nav>` element.

## aside
The aside element represents a portion of a document whose content is only indirectly related to the document's main content. Asides are **frequently presented as sidebars or call-out boxes**.

## address
The address element indicates that the enclosed HTML provides **contact information** for a person or people, or for an organization.

This element should **not contain more information than the contact information**, like a publication date (which belongs in a `<time>` element).

Typically an `<address>` element **can be placed inside the `<footer>` element** of the current section, if any.

## hgroup
The HTML hgroup element represents **a multi-level heading for a section of a document**. It groups a set of h1~h6 elements.

## 참고
[HTML elements reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element#Content_sectioning)